# What is a language?
In everyday conversation, "language" refers to human languages, which change and evolve as people use them differently. However, formal languages are much more rigid and rule based than human languages, and can be described in a far more concrete terms. The main difference between a human language and a formal language is that while there is no 'right' way to speak a human language, no 'proper' English that is more English than any other English, a formal language conform to a specific ruleset which determines whether a particular term/phrase is part of the language. For instance, we could have the language of all three-letter english words, which would contain the strings "bat", "cat", "too", "the", etc. until we'd listed all the three-letter words in the dictionary. 

More practically, we hear about programming languages such as Java, Python, or C++, and conceptually these are identical to the formal languages discussed above. A programming language has set rules to determine membership in the language: Java, for instance, is just the set of compilable Java programs, or the programs which adhere Java's syntactic and semantic ruleset -- all statements end with a semicolon, all variables are defined before being used, etc. 

Confusion often arises about the difference between a programming language such as Java and a markup language such as HTML, and whether both belong in the category of computer languages. The defining difference between the two categories is that while a programming language is used to issue commands to a computer a markup language is used to provide semantic information about a document. HTML for instance uses tags like `<p>`, `<a>`, or `<ul>` to give context to text following that tag, but leaves the specifics of how such text might be displayed or handled to the browser, which is why the same page might be rendered differently in two different browsers. Conceptually, however, both markup and programming languages are sets of strings acceptable according to some set of rules and represent the same formal concept of a language.

## Further Reading and References
<!-- mostly wrote this from previous knowledge, so I'm just linking to some relevant wikipedia articles. -->
* ["Formal Language." Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. Web. 02 Feb. ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formal_language)
* ["Markup Language." Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. Web. 02 Feb.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language)
* ["Programming Languages." Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. Web. 02 Feb. 2016](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_language)
